Through the mail on the afternoon of July 9th, the first copy came by writing page from the
Senate.
Did anyone from the McCarthy Committee contact you on the following day?
That is, July 9th, 53.
I believe that the only contact it was made at that time was made by me directly, let
the McCarthy Committee myself.
Are you initiated by contact?
Yes, sir.
Do you need it, you talk?
Talk to Mr. Collins.
Talk to everything was said by Mr. Collins on the occasion with reference to change.
In order to clarify my conversation, I believe I should give for the record the actions
that I took that morning.
In order to explain my conversation with Mr. Collins.
We will do so, General.
Yes, sir.
Upon my return to the Pentagon on the evening of July 8th, it was late and it was too late
for me to take in action on this case.
The next morning, after the receipt of the biographical data, I then called the acting
chief of transportation, but here's General Paul Young.
I asked him without giving him any names of the people involved in this case, whether
or not an individual who had served for a year or approximately a year as a ship doctor,
junior ship doctor, and the Army Transport Service in 1946 and 1947, and who was otherwise
physically and mentally qualified for a commission, whether or not an individual with those
particularly qualifications, but could be given a direct commission and the officer's
request.
Now and now, after looking into that matter, I called me back and informed me that it
appeared that an individual with those qualifications could properly be commissioned and the
result of the transportation could properly be, yes, very well.
What the unit received?
My next step then, because, very frankly, because I considered it my duty because the importance
of this particular case was for me to consult with General John E. Paul, who was then
Vice Chief of Staff of the Department of the Army.
On that particular day, I believe that General Watten College, who was Chief of Staff,
was absent from watching.
So I felt it my duty to report to General Paul, this specific case, to make my recommendations
to General Paul, and to receive this approval or this approval of those recommendations.
Paul, thank you double-edged.
I reported personally to General Paul the essence of my conversation with Senator McCarthy
and Mr. Cohen on the preceding day.
I also reported to him that I had discussed the matter that morning with General Yao without
mentioning any names, and a general Yao did a so-and-mute apparently an individual with
those qualifications, quite the received information.
I then recommended to General Paul that I processed the case in accordance with the then current
Army regulations.
General Paul gave me a specific instructions that the case was to be processed in time in accordance
with the then current Army regulations.
I also asked General Paul because of the importance of the case, is whether or not he desired
me to inform the Secretary of the Army of this case.
General Paul informed me that he desired me to show informed secretary, and I did that.
I do not believe I did it on that actual day, because I believe Mr. Stevens was also out of town
to take a day.
After these conversations, I then called Mr. Cohen and requested that Mr. Stein be sent
over to the Pentagon building as soon as possible so that we could begin processing him for
a possible commission.
Was that done?
Yes, sir it was.
Do you have any personal knowledge of what occurred when Mr. Stein appeared for the purposes
of the process?
Yes, we relate that please.
From a consultation of all available records in the department, and to my own personal recollection
of the case, on afternoon of Wednesday 15 July, what was the process?
I was told to my one of the members of my staff, the first me that he had received a telephone
call from Mr. Stein.
I believe he's the record straight I should insert.
The prior to that time, I'm sure they had my conversation with Mr. John.
Young and General Paul, I have informed three members of my personal staff of this request
recommendation in order that they might be able to act, and then to prevent that I did not
happen to be in the office when Mr. Stein came in.
Those members were kind of well-seated things, whereas then my deputy, Colonel John P. Mayer,
who was then the executive officer of the office of legislative liaison, and also Lieutenant
Colonel F. J. Brammerman, who was the assistant executive officer.
Now, to return to the July 15, on afternoon of July 15, Colonel Brammerman reported me that
he had received a call from Mr. Stein, who stated, you know, fact that he desired to come over
to the Pentagon not afternoon and hold up his chance.
I am stuck at Compton when Mr. Stein is what's the significance of the statement, hold up his hand.
The mayor has had no evidence of the statement was to get the hold up his hand meant to be sworn
in as a result of all of that afternoon.
There it is.
You guys have been away from the Pentagon, Brutus.
As soon as he was very quick, I continue to trust him, saying, and they trust him, the
Christmas you know, so they're not.
We will allow him to say, he's an element.
I think that obviously the chair must be lenient to a certain extent, a lot of years later.
And the other, I know they don't call it a quote, rude.
On the other hand, this government's Iranian purpose is put in the right way, of course,
where I believe the individual's purpose should be available, 60% of the world will be sworn.
And I make that point because they generalize the figure of state, because they are the time.
Reading the first statement, the minute officially under the 24-hour rule in which yesterday had that before,
that statement included some testimony which was not correct.
We decided to inform one among ourselves, and tentatively that in such circumstances,
we would try to give as much reasonable out of food as we could so that each party to the dispute,
and to present his case in his best light, provided the witnesses would give the available
to give direct testimony, if they were to find.
And that rule will hold it.
The big mass sentence, the two of us, the two of us, the two of us, agreed that they were being taught
about Mr. Jenkins to present their complete taste, and let's see, did at times, a lot of years later,
testimony, but my roommate thought he was the first testimony of any importance that's in him,
but then the witness feels available, depending on the individual.
I won't be done, I'm not as.
I think that's a good point.
The very experienced attorney and counsel, the first reaction to Mr. Jenkins yesterday
upon the meeting of the state, that we eliminate everything that was not direct testimony,
and he said perhaps in the interest of illuminating the hearings and expediting them,
we should give some out of it to provide the witnesses who are available.
We're proceeding on that, but I think that's a good one.
And if those witnesses are not available, Mr. Chairman, and if they are not produced as witnesses,
certainly will not be dismissed upon their statements.
Very good, Mr. President.
Now, generally, we've received with your statement.
I am still receiving this message from Donald Brown, and I am struck with Donald Feng and Donald Brown.
So, Frances, Mr. Schein, that afternoon, is there any testimony that's in the picture?
I'm sorry, Mr. Macdonald.
A little question is, after receiving this telephone message from the time Donald Brown,
and I instructed Donald Feng, Donald Brown, and to process Mr. Schein strictly important for the regulations,
when he came over to the office that afternoon.
I was informed that afternoon of Mr. Schein this time.
I know that he was in office.
I know that he started filling out his application for a commission,
and I have seen the official record of the physical examination that he took that afternoon.
There seemed to be considerable difficulty that afternoon.
There was considerable difficulty that afternoon, getting Mr. Schein, fill out a full application.
Donald Feng reported to me that Mr. Schein seemed to have a attitude of taste and impatience.
I then personally spoke to Mr. Schein.
Twenty-twenty-one of the sentences I'm sorry about.
What I want to know about Donald Feng is going to be a witness to corroborate that statement.
I do not know.
I don't believe it.
I don't believe Mr. Schein on the text.
I personally would be popular unless Donald Feng is going to be at a back of up.
And I will also ensure we have to screen the point of order unless the claim is made available to it.
It would call for an opinion of this witness to what someone else told him.
Thank you.
He's far from it.
Mr. Chairman, I am informed that Colonel Feng is in and happy and in the way available.
You can be made available on the statement, Mr. Schein.
I will save Dan Mitchell's voice from Colonel Feng, which I understand he will be asked to testify about later.
I then personally saw Mr. Schein and explained to him the necessity for filling out.
I have identified the records, the gentlemen, Mr. Ribbard's last but just told.
Mr. Feng Claire is associated with Mr. Wilk.
I also met Mr. Wilk and Mr. Sincer, who is a member of the council.
The message is that Steven's out in the town.
Perfect.
I then saw Mr. Schein very quickly that afternoon and explained to him the necessity for going through the full process of apricot flying for a commission under a zone personal signature.
And receiving an necessary physical examination and process.
I then, the person of a mother appointment on Capitol Hill did not follow the case for the rest of the afternoon.
When I returned to my office at approximately 530-426 that evening, Mr. Schein had left.
He left with us an application that was not completely filled out.
On the next day, Thursday, July 16th, it was necessary to get a hold of him, Mr. Schein, to have him fill in some of the data that was not complete in this particular necessary application for a commission.
Further that day, as I recall to the best of my ability, it was also necessary for me to send the application over to the Capitol to Mr. Cohn to request him to send it to Mr. Schein for his final piece of information.
That application was sent to Mr. Schein to Mr. Cohn and his return, either late that evening or the next morning, early, by Mr. Cohn's office to me.
That brings us up to Friday, July 17th.
On that day, the Edison General Army started processing Mr. Cohn's application for isolation.
Because of his previous service in the New York Army Transwar service, it was first sent to the Transformation Corps of the Army.
The application was found by the Transformation Corps of the Army.
That Mr. Schein was not qualified under the then-content regulations for a direct commission in the reserve for the Transformation Corps,
because this actual service in 1946 was not in what we would normally term with the capacity of a junior ship's officer,
that is an officer having navigational responsibility for the ship that was more I can make position of a person.
The commission was also thoroughly processed by the Office of the Program Module General because of Mr. Schein's investigative background.
That's published found that he was not qualified under the then-content regulations.
Likewise, because of his investigative background, I had an informal inquiry made in the Office of the Chief of Psychological Warfare.
I was informed that he was not qualified for that because one of the three direct witnesses to the commission and the Office of Psychological Warfare is three years of plan I'll show you his frames, but Mr. Schein did not have.
During this period and up until end of the month of July, I was told numerous calls from Mr. Cohen, urging speed in this case and urging a favorable result as shown as possible.
How many telephone calls would you estimate you received, General?
I could only make an estimate, Mr. Jenkins, because of course I did not keep a record of those telephone calls.
But I would say that at times I received two and three telephone calls a day.
There were other days, of course, on which I received either one or no telephone calls, but I would say consistently throughout that third, possibly an average of two telephone calls.
When you state a game, what period that embraced an embrace that carried from approximately 17 July until the end of the month, approximately 30 or 31 July.
In this connection, I also received two telephone calls directly from Mr. Cohen, on the same security.
On from the third day, you received an image during that period, that is middle of July to the latter part of July, some two or three calls from the senator.
Of the same General Tenor as I understood it, was I understood it.
Those movements would call from you, or they would call from you, standard, purgary, and statutory, for space, and its sex.
Go ahead.
From the big Mahogany panel caucus room in the Senate office building in Washington, mutual has been bringing you special coverage of the congressional hearings in senator Joseph Arma Karthi's dispute with double army officials.
The hearings are being conducted before the Senate's permanent subcommittee on investigations, with Senator Carly-Mod of South Dakota presiding as the temporary chairman.
The only witness thus far has been Major General Miles Weber, former the Army Liaison, officer with Congress, who testified to the efforts of Senator McCarthy and Roy M. Cohen to obtain an Army commission for G. David Shye.
Neutral your network for news will be back with more on the spot coverage of these hearings this afternoon over many of these stations.
And at 10.30 tonight, Eastern Standard Time over many of these stations is special.
During the entire processing of this case, at the same time, I notified Mr. Kohn of one additional process.
At that time in July of 1953, the commanding generals of the six top-notch Army carriers in which the United States is alive had authority on their own to award direct commissions for specialists to fill existing vacancies in their own.
I conferred with the technical people in the office of the I.C. and General about this possibility and on the 23rd of July when I was informed that the application for commission that had been processed by the department had been denied, I then started the machinery rolling to have Mr. Shye considered for a direct commission to fill a specific position.
By the commanding general first Army, as Governor's Island New York, the President of New York State, the actual processing of that application was sent by the I.C. and General through to the commanding general first Army.
My office kept in touch with this processing by telephone. During the between the period 23, 24 July and the end of the month, Mr. Shye's application was considered thoroughly by Board of Officers appointed specifically for that purpose by the commanding general first Army.
That Board found that Mr. Shye was not qualified to fill any specialist vacancy that existed in the first Army at that time. I received that information as I recall it on either the 29th or 3th July. I'm not exactly sure of which date.
I then telephoned that information to Mr. Cohn as soon as I received it. About that time either just before or just after I sent Mr. Cohn this information, I was asked by him by telephone to inquire as to the possibility of obtaining a commission for Mr. Shye in the department of the Air Force or the Department of the Navy.
In response to that request, I telephoned first to make the general Robert E. L.E. for that time, but Director of Legislative Liaison of the Department of the Air Force. In my conversation with Joe Eaten, I did not use any names.
I merely asked Joe Eaten. I stated in, of course, he knew that I was in the Legislative Liaison.
But, and he knew that my request came from members of Congress. I did state to him that I had a specific request from the Senate.
To determine whether or not an individual with the following qualifications could be given a direct commission in the Department of the Air Force, and I then outlined Mr. Shye in qualifications as they have been affronting specifically to the Department of the Army.
Joe Eaten replied that at that time, the Department of the Air Force was not giving any direct reserved commission to any time.
I then endeared to reach Admiral Iron None, who was then Judge Advocate's General of the Navy. I was not able to reach him, and I then talked to Commander James Carns, the Executive Officer of the Legislative Division Officer of the Judge Advocate's General of the Navy.
Again, in my conversation with Commander Carns, I gave no names. I merely outlined the qualifications of the individuals.
Commander Carns, after doing some checking, as I recall, it followed me back and stated that the Navy's requirements for direct commissions in the Navy reserved for at that time were substantially the same as those of the Army, and he emphasized the fact that one of the Navy's specific requirements was fire military service.
I then informed Mr. Carns of the results of those two conversations.
General, is that now the end of your connection with the so-called efforts at the mature preference of treatment for shame?
There was one other episode in which I was...
Yes, I was directly connected. Is it material to the issue?
No, sir, I do not believe it. Let's stop there. Now, General, I want to make myself clear.
I do not represent Mr. Adams, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Hensel.
Nor do I represent the Senator and the members of his staff, but I represent this committee.
And it now becomes my duty to, certainly to the extent that I've been covered, and another of the committee may determine the weight to be given your time.
I'm a testimony of the cross-examining you. General, we very...
You in your position with the Army received many telephone calls from many senators, congressmen, administrative officials and others,
with reference to inductees, dressees or those about to become so, did you not?
Yes, Mr. Jaggins, I did. And that has been a common practice. I would say since the time to which your memory run as not to the congee, isn't it?
Yes, sir. So that these telephone calls and conversations from Senator McCarthy will discuss the him first.
We're not unusual, Willie.
No, sir, telephone calls from senators were not on me. Did you at any time feel that Senator McCarthy was high-pressuring you?
No, sir. I can't say that I felt that he was high-pressuring me to a great extent.
I'm sure that he wanted a favorable answer, I could tell.
In you of the tremendously important work in which Senator McCarthy was then engaged, didn't you?
I certainly did. And that was the investigation of communists and of the...
The infiltration of communists in industries, in the air every bench of the government as well as in the army.
That was my understanding. And generally you would regard that as work, then which there could possibly be no more important work insofar as the security of the nation is concerned.
But you not? I certainly didn't get it. But it would have top billing and top priority over everything else. That's correct, didn't it?
I have to be very frank, sir. I'm under oath. I can't say over everything now.
It would be very, very, very hard.
There's Indians ever on the part of an individual group of individuals.
It's occurred to you as being more important and especially at this particular time than that of the tracking down and fading out of communists,
communists, so those with communistic leanings, whether they be in the army, are anywhere else in this country.
Certainly not to my knowledge. And that was the work that Senator McCarthy was doing, wasn't it?
Yes, sir. And that was the work that he told you that G. David Shine was doing, wasn't it? That's correct.
I am so in a value, ladies.
As he is a telephone call and contacts from Senator McCarthy, to you, with respect to G. David Shine, one would have to, and I'm sure you they had taken the consideration.
Not only the individual, but the character and the importance of the work in which he was then engaged. That's correct, isn't it?
I certainly did. And you were told in you knew. Rather you were told.
By both Senator McCarthy and Mr. Gold, that Shine was an expert trained investigator, with a background of experience, possessing a peculiar knowledge of what constituted a communist.
And the means and best methods available of detecting a communist. They told you that, didn't they?
Yes, sir, they did. Now, Senator, you have spoken of numerous calls from Senator McCarthy and numerous others from Mr. Gold, taking in the consideration.
The value work in which they told you Shine was advised was engaged.
I believe you say that you did not regard the efforts of Senator McCarthy as being him, proper, in any respect, in his efforts to get some, shall we say, preferential treatment for Shine so that he could,
insisting, ganging on this investigative work of the senator, is that right? I believe Mr. Jenkins, I said that I did not consider that Senator McCarthy's telephone calls to me were out of the normal amount of, now I don't say normal, out of the experience that I had before, in cases of this kind.
I don't believe I said anything. What about Mr. Cohn? I felt that Mr. Cohn was persistently after me, sir, that's the feeling that I had, ordering this performance.
Did you feel that Mr. Cohn's efforts on behalf of this boy, engaged in this particular line of endeavor along with Mr. Cohn in the senator?
Were you in proper? I felt this, Mr. Jenkins, I felt that in view of the position of the committee staff, that I was being put under definite pressure because I know that there is a specific proviso whereby an individual who is considered to be sufficiently involved in this.
And it's important for the national safety health and interest that he should remain on his then current duty, that individual can be exempted from selective service.
Do you know whether or not any application had been made by Shine with this selective service board to be exempt or deferred on the count of this vital work in which he was engaged? I do not.
Now, General, you know the character of work being carried on at Port Monmouth, do you not? Do you know of it? I know of it, yes.
Did you know that at that time, that is July 53 and perhaps before that time?
The McCarthy Investigating Committee was laying the groundwork for an investigation of communist infiltration of Port Monmouth. I did not, July of 1933 now.
You later learned that fact, did you not?
And you later learned that as a result of the senator's efforts together with that of his staff, at least 33 civilian employees at Port Monmouth were either fad or suspended because of their communist leanings or background.
That's too easy. I know that a number of, number of approximating 33 I believe Mr. Jenkins were suspended. I frankly do not know the details of the reasons for their suspension.
Do you know that G David Shine participated in the investigation of Port Monmouth? It's my understanding that he did.
Port Monmouth is the very site upon which the defenses against both the atomic and the hydrogen bombs are planned and laid. Is that correct? It is the signal core of the Army.
It is the signal core of research and development activity, which is vital to the activities. And there is located the radar installation.
And the study of electronic devices so that there certainly was...
The report, the championship interpret the night until say yes or no or qualify a answer, but a shake of the head who are not in the head is hard for the reporter to be quite in here.
So that it was vital to the interests and the safety and the security of the nation. That there are wall places, beans.
No employee or no member of the Army at Port Monmouth, who was a doubtful security reason. That's correct. That certainly has Mr. Jenkins.
And that is the character work that was carried on by the senator, the members of his staff including Shine and with the results that 33 questionable civilian employees were discharged after sending.
That's correct. Of my own personal knowledge. That's no matter of general knowledge isn't a general revert.